# Online-Shopping-System
 "ONLINE SHOPPING SYSTEM" is a web-based application Software developed using Java Server and JSP and Mysql as backend on Windows machine. The main aim of "ONLINE SHOPPING SYSTEM" is to improve the services of Customers and vendors. It maintains the details of customer payments, product receipts, addition of new customers, products and also updating, deletion for the same. It also stores the details of invoices generated by customers and payments made by them with all Payments details like credit card. The primary features of the project entitled "ONLINE SHOPPING SYSTEM" are high accuracy, design flexibility and easy availability. And also it uses database tables Representing entities and relationships between entities
# ABSTRACT
 "Nowadays the lifestyle of the people is different. People feel uncomfortable and time consuming when going to crowded markets. So, shopping online is 
 a boon as it saves a lot of time.
 Online shopping is a process whereby consumers directly buy goods, services etc. from a seller without an intermediary service over the Internet. Shoppers
can visit web stores from the comfort of their house and shop as by sitting in
front of the computer.
# INTRODUCTION
  "The Project entitled "ONLINE SHOPPING SYSTEM" is a web-based application Software developed using HTML, CSS and JavaScript as a front
end and JSP and Mysql as backend on Windows machine.  The main aim of "ONLINE SHOPPING SYSTEM" is to improve
the services of Customers and vendors. It maintains the details of customer payments, product receipts, addition of new customers, products and also
updating, deletion for the same. It also stores the details of invoices generated by customers and payments made by them with all Payments details like
credit card.
The primary features of the project entitled "ONLINE SHOPPING SYSTEM" are high accuracy, design flexibility and easy availability. And
also it uses database tables Representing entities and relationships between entities.
# OVERVIEW OF ONLINE SHOPPING
The central concept of the application is to allow the customer to shop
virtually using the Internet and allow customers to buy the items and
articles of their desire from the store. The information pertaining to the
products are stores on an RDBMS at the server side (store). The Server
process the customers and the items are shipped to the address submitted
by them.
The application was designed into two modules first Os for the
customers who wish to buy the articles. Second is for the storekeepers
who maintains and updates the information pertaining to the articles and
those of the customers?
The end user of this product is a departmental store where the
application is hosted on the web and the administrator maintains the
database. The application which is deployed at the customer database,
the details of the items are brought forward from the database for the
customer view based on the selection through the menu and the database
of all the products are updated at the end of each transaction.
Data entry into the application can be done through various screens
designed for various levels of users. Once the authorized personnel feed
the relevant data into the system, several reports could be generated as
per the security

# OBJECTIVES
• The users shall be able to add an item to the cart in fewer than 5 seconds.
• The users shall be able to view information about an item in fewer than 5
seconds.
• The users shall be able to check out the items in the shopping cart within 10
seconds after completing the order form.
• The navigation between pages shall take fewer than 5 seconds.
• The application shall be able to do a validation check on the information
provided in the user-authentication form and the place-order form to avoid
false or incomplete information
